[Security][Workflows][9.5 & Serverless] Workflow library: Browse out-of-the-box templates (#7513)
elastic/docs-content: explore-analyze/workflows/templates/start-from-a-template.md

Because templates live in a central catalog, Elastic can publish new and updated templates without requiring a {{kib}} upgrade.

## Before you begin [workflows-templates-before-you-begin]

- Workflows must be available in your deployment. Refer to [](/explore-analyze/workflows/get-started/setup.md).
- You need the **`All`** privilege for **Analytics → Workflows** to create workflows and use **Add workflow**.
- The Template library is turned off by default. An administrator must enable it before you can use it. Refer to [Enable the Template library](/explore-analyze/workflows/get-started/setup.md#workflows-templates-enable).

## Browse and filter templates [workflows-templates-browse]

If the library is empty, no templates are available for your {{kib}} version yet.

1. Open **Workflows** using the navigation menu or the [global search field](/explore-analyze/find-and-organize/find-apps-and-objects.md).
2. Open the library:
   - Select **Template library** in the Workflows navigation, or
   - If you don't have any workflows yet, select **Explore library** when accessing the **Workflows** page.
3. Find a template that matches your use case.

>    - Narrow the results with **Categories**.

Reviewer: We should probably mention that available templates are pre-filtered by the current solution. If the current view is not solution-scoped (classic nav space on ECH/on-prem), a "Solution" dropdown is enabled to allow filtering.

Author: Ohh, I always forget that we have the two nav views for stack. Good reminder.

Author: Fixed in [`e54370e` (this PR)](https://github.com/elastic/docs-content/pull/7513/commits/e54370edd84bceb7c694ca947f802d0ae0e6b73c).

Each template card shows step and trigger icons, so you can tell which connectors and step types a template uses before you open it.

## Preview a template [workflows-templates-preview]

Preview a template to confirm it fits your use case before you add it.

1. Select a template card to open its detail page. The detail page shows the template's name, description, tags, solutions, and version.
2. Inspect the read-only **Preview** of the workflow definition (YAML) to see the triggers and steps the template uses.

## Add a template as your workflow [workflows-templates-add]

When you add a template, {{kib}} creates a copy that you own and can modify freely.

> 1. On the template detail page, select **Add workflow**.

Reviewer: In 9.5, the button reads "Open in editor". 

The button will change in 9.6/serverless soon and will become 2 buttons:
- "Remix with AI" -> same behavior as "Open in editor", shows unsaved workflow in editor with agent open
- "Install" -> saves it directly and goes to the editor

The PR: https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/280456 (relevant for serverless docs soon)

Author: Hm, I'm still seeing **Add workflow** in edge-sec and QA's Serverless Security project that's running on Prod Noncanary. Pics below:

<img width="1217" height="692" alt="Screenshot 2026-07-30 at 10 40 05 AM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/64ed3603-d5ca-46a5-ae6c-4e73845a6733" />

<img width="1217" height="697" alt="Screenshot 2026-07-30 at 10 44 46 AM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d3c03fd1-ed88-4cf2-8ab5-15132230bb25" />

Author: I revised this section in [`e54370e` (this PR)](https://github.com/elastic/docs-content/pull/7513/commits/e54370edd84bceb7c694ca947f802d0ae0e6b73c). The content now describes what you can do with templates, without naming specific UI elements like button labels. This way, the docs for building workflows from templates don't need to be updated when https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/280456 becomes live in serverless.

---
navigation_title: Start from a template
applies_to:
  stack: preview 9.5+
  serverless: preview
description: Browse curated, pre-built workflow templates in the Template Library, preview them, and add one as your own workflow to customize and run.
products:
  - id: kibana
  - id: cloud-serverless
  - id: cloud-hosted
  - id: cloud-enterprise
  - id: cloud-kubernetes
  - id: elastic-stack
---

> # Start a workflow from a curated template [workflows-templates-start]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Create a workflow from a template [workflows-templates-start]
```
simpler, more common terms IMO

- Add a template as a workflow you own, then edit, enable, and run it like any other workflow.

Because templates live in a central catalog, Elastic can publish new and updated templates without requiring a {{kib}} upgrade.

## Before you begin [workflows-templates-before-you-begin]

- Workflows must be available in your deployment. Refer to [](/explore-analyze/workflows/get-started/setup.md).
- You need the **`All`** privilege for **Analytics → Workflows** to create workflows and use **Add workflow**.
- The Template Library is turned off by default. An administrator must enable it before you can use it. Refer to [Enable the Template Library](/explore-analyze/workflows/get-started/setup.md#workflows-templates-enable).

## Browse and filter templates [workflows-templates-browse]

If the library is empty, no templates are available for your {{kib}} version yet.

1. Open **Workflows** using the navigation menu or the [global search field](/explore-analyze/find-and-organize/find-apps-and-objects.md).
2. Open the library:
   - Select **Template Library** in the Workflows navigation, or

>    - On an empty workflows list, select **Explore library**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - If you don't have any workflows yet, select **Explore library** when accessing the **Workflows** page.
```
That's subjective but I find this wording to refer to the empty state a bit strange ^^'

3. Find a template that matches your use case:
   - Search by name or description.

>    - Filter by **solution** (for example, Security or {{observability}}).

Reviewer 2: Interestingly there's a mismatch between what we can search for and what the templates indicate (only after you select one). In this example, the slack connector is marked as for all 3 solutions, but looking for "Security" or "Observability" in the previous screen doesn't return it.

<img width="476" height="331" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/720e2f0c-e1c2-4375-bbaf-cf15b7cf7efb" />

Author: Yeah, I noticed this discrepancy too while testing this morning. I'll prob just remove this line to avoid highlighting a bug.

Author: Fixed in [`e9409bb` (this PR)](https://github.com/elastic/docs-content/pull/7513/commits/e9409bb49e680cbe33f11e3e760a558d7a529bfb).

   - Narrow the results with **Categories**.

Each template card shows step and trigger icons, so you can tell which connectors and step types a template uses before you open it.

## Preview a template [workflows-templates-preview]

Preview a template to confirm it fits your use case before you add it.

1. Select a template card to open its detail page.

> 2. Review the template's name, description, tags, solutions, and version.

Reviewer 2: what's there to review?

Author: Removed step 2

> 3. Inspect the read-only **Preview**. The preview opens as a diagram of the workflow's triggers and steps. Use the toggle in the preview to switch between the diagram and the workflow definition (YAML).

Reviewer 2: There is no toggle in serverless (live) or 9.5 QA, only the yaml is there

Author: Removed last sentence.

## Add a template as your workflow [workflows-templates-add]

When you add a template, {{kib}} creates a copy that you own and can modify freely.

1. On the template detail page, select **Add workflow**.
2. {{kib}} opens the workflow editor with the template's YAML prefilled as an unsaved workflow.

> 3. Customize the workflow for your environment. For example, select a connector and set indices or other step parameters. The editor flags steps that still need configuration, such as an unset connector.

Reviewer 2: A link to editing docs might be useful here even if we have the related links at the bottom

Author: Added link
